
             Release Notes for Apcupsd 3.14.x

Apcupsd 3.14.x is the latest STABLE release, containing many bug fixes and
new features over the previous 3.12.x stable series. Users of all previous
versions are encouraged to upgrade.

IF YOU USE THE OLD STYLE MASTER/SLAVE NETWORKING MODE, BE SURE TO READ THE
RELEASE NOTES BELOW.


3.14.0 -- 09 February 2007

NEW FEATURES

  * USB support for 3 new platforms:

  	- Windows (Win98SE, WinME, Win2000, Win2003 Server, WinXP)
  	- Mac OS X (Darwin)
  	- Solaris 10 (x86 and SPARC)

        Please see the Apcupsd manual for details on USB configuration for the
        new platforms.

  * Native Windows port
  
       The winapcupsd port has been completely rewritten to use native
       Win32 libraries (based on MinGW32). It no longer relies on a Cygwin
       translation layer, thus improving compatibility and performance.

  * PowerChute Network Shutdown driver
  
       Apcupsd now supports the PowerChute Network Shutdown protocol (PCNET)
       offered by the AP9617 family of smart slot modules. This protocol is
       much lighter-weight than SNMP and offers better security. Please see 
       the Apcupsd manual for details on PCNET configuration.

  * GAPCMON GUI monitoring tool
  
       Apcupsd is now packaged with the GAPCMON GUI monitoring application
       thanks to James Scott, Jr. This is a Gnome/GTK based application which
       integrates into most desktop panels (not just Gnome). It monitors one or
       more Apcupsd instances using Apcupsd's NIS networking server. The status
       of each UPS is shown with a icon similar to the Win32 tray icon in 
       winapcupsd. Enable building of gapcmon at compile time via 
       --enable-gapcmon or install the apcupsd-gapcmon RPM.

  * Unreliable MASTER/SLAVE networking mode is removed
  
       Yes, this is a feature. The old MASTER/SLAVE mode for shutting down
       multiple servers from one UPS has historically been unreliable and prone
       to loss of communications or lockups. Apcupsd has long had a replacement
       networking mode using the NIS server (NIS stands for Network Information
       Server, and has nothing to do with Sun's NIS/YP protocol). The NIS net
       mode is very reliable and has none of the lockup bugs that have plagued 
       MASTER/SLAVE mode.
       
       In 3.14.x, MASTER/SLAVE mode has been removed and the associated 
       configuration directives are now obsolete. Please see the Apcupsd manual
       for a very simple NIS networking configuration to replace MASTER/SLAVE.

   * New configuration directives to set paths at runtime

       Several new (optional) configuration directives have been added to 
       allow overriding compiled-in paths at runtime. The directives are:

          - SCRIPTDIR (sets location of apccontrol and event scripts)
          - PWRFAILDIR (sets location where powerfail file will be written)
          - NOLOGINDIR (set location where nologin file will be written)

       These directives can be used to rearrange the Apcupsd installation
       after compiling, or to run multiple Apcupsd instances on the
       same machine without compiling separate copies.

       See the Apcupsd manual for details on these new directives.
