
          Release Notes for Apcupsd 3.10.10

Changes since 3.10.9:
- I added a new "offbattery" event that is only executed if the 
  "onbattery" event was executed. This should allow users to easily
  control what messages they get and by using the ONBATTERYDELAY the
  time on batteries before the onbattery event is notified.

Release 3.10.9
31Dec03
- Bartlomiej Krol found an unexpected interaction between the 6 second
  "debounce" code and the new ONBATTERY delay time that caused the
  USB and apcsmart drivers to sleep for a long time.
28Dec03
- Added upsBaiscOntrolConverveBattery change to smtp requested by
  Kastus Shchuka (kastus@list.sourceforge.net) 
- Move wall in killpower of apccontrol to after killpower to avoid 
  errors stopping script.
- Install apctest along with apcupsd.
19Dec03
- Added patch by Adam Kropelin that ignores invalid samples. This 
  eliminates the need for the wait, and seems to calm the system. Apparently, 
  even though apcupsd did not use the bad samples, it would break from the
  wait loop, and request an update, which gave even more bad samples. With
  Adam's patch the samples are simply dropped and we continue waiting (if 
  appropriate).  Thanks Adam.
18Dec03
- Add Slackware updated patch submitted by Andrei Mamontov
- Corrected the missing library dependencies in src/Makefile.in
  Thanks to Reg. Clemens for pushing me a bit on this.
24Nov03
- Added a ONBATTERYDELAY to the conf file. This is the time in
  seconds that apcupsd will wait after detecting a power failure
  until it sets the onbattery state.  If you do not want to be
  annoyed by short power outages (usually less than 10 seconds),
  set the ONBATTERYDELAY appropriately and comment out the
  powerout) "echo ...|wall" statement.
- I finally got the no driver configured error. It turns out that the
  Makefile detection of changes is all botched up. Since I don't understand
  how the author expected it to work, I used the sledgehammer approach and
  do a "make clean" on every ./configure.
- Replaced apcnet.c with Howard Wilkinson's new master/slave code. If
  anyone *really* needs the old driver, it is in src/apcnet.c.old
- Upgraded to Cygwin 1.5.5

Items to note:  !!!!!
- The default NIS port has changed from 7000 to 3551. Port 3551 has been
  officially assigned to apcupsd by IANA.
